My visualization illustrates performance in the English Premier League through goals and expected goals across 5 different seasons.
The visualization is composed of 2 main parts, with a selection of filters and a legend displayed above.
The scatter plot on the left here shows the expected goals for and against for each team in the premier league in the currently selected season.
The dotted lines indicate the average performance in both categories for all teams in the current season.
The bar chart on the right shows the top 10 players by expected goals, again filtered by the currently selected season.
The color of each bar represents their expected goals per 90 minutes, an additional indicator as to the quality of the player.
Hovering over either a team or a player will give you the exact numbers as well some additional information.
You can filter the bar chart by a specific team or teams by brushing the scatter plot.
This will filter the bar chart, as you can see here.
You can select a different season through the drop down menu, which will filter both the scatter plot and the bar chart.
To get a better idea of a teams actual performance compared to their expected performance,
you can choose a different mode in the performance drop down.
The scatter plot now shows goals and expected goals, with the dotted line indicating what would constitute a match between both metrics.
The bar chart will adjust to show the number of goals scored by a player, as opposed to their expected goals.
Filtering is still available, like before.